## Reflection Document

### HTML - 01

I was able to complete most of the exercises on my own, using the video solutions as review after I finished for comparison. The exception to this was the 03-table exercise, where I got by the formatting and combination of `<tr>` and `<td>` to match the requested table design. Watching the video for assistance helped me get back on track and where specifically the `rowspan` and `colspan` attributes mattered.

I found the exercises especially helpful because of how varied they were; practicing different types of HTML tags in each exercise felt like we were establishing a wide foundation of what native HTML has to offer. The 04-form exercise was particularly helpful because it also shows how to manage groups of HTML within groups (e.g. the inner fieldset within the form), leading to better practices on nesting HTML.

Although the `<fieldset>` tag was covered in the reading assignments, I wish it was expanded upon in the slides since I was initially puzzled on what to do in the 04-form exercise until it occurred to me from reviewing the web.dev docs. Overall, I think the HTML exercises encompass a reasonable and satisfactory area of content, so I don’t have any suggestions on additional exercises that would help us learn HTML better.

### Accessibility - 02

I was able to complete the exercise on my own, other than the `<button>` tags needing to change to the more semantic `<input>` from watching the video to compare solutions. I appreciated how the exercise emphasized the difference between explicit and implicit labeling, and even though I used the former as it’s more preferred, I understand the reasoning behind both cases. I also like how the exercise enforced that the developer must ensure that only one radio input was selectable by using the same `name` attribute for all the inputs within the Favorite Character fieldset. This lesson emphasizes the standard of one selected radio button per group and the purpose of the `name` attribute in general.

I wish using the `<input>` over the provided `<button>` was explained better, as `<button>` still seems semantically sufficient. Since the exercise is about a form, perhaps an explanation on the importance of `<input>` throughout the entire form, including its submission functionality, would elaborate on why `<button>` is not the best choice to use in a form. Since there was only one exercise for this section, I do wish we had some more exercises to practice adding accessibility to HTML elements other than forms. Because the lectures covered the topics of color contrast and ARIA labels, some exercises to especially practice the former, since color design is essential in web development, would have helped learn more accessibility practices.

### CSS - 03

Besides reviewing the videos after an exercise for revision, I completed the earlier numbered exercises on my own, but I resorted to the video solutions on _05-Position_ and _06-Media-Queries_ mostly for assistance on specific padding and margin values. I enjoyed how the exercises explored the vast array of CSS syntax and key concepts all in relatively isolated forms. For example, I like how the _05-Position_ exercise practices the common position types through individual classes but all on one page, allowing us to thoroughly analyze the differences between each type. With how essential responsive design and cross-device functionality is in the industry, I appreciated the _06-Media-Queries_ exercise that applied the three common viewport sizes through simplistic color swapping. The fact that we also had to manage a navigation bar with these media queries made the exercise feel more like a realistic application that greatly improves understanding.

On the contrary, despite the 6th exercise arguably being the most useful, going through the exercise was initially confusing due to its increased complexity compared to the prior exercises. I had not realized the browser stylesheet was enforcing defaults on specific properties, like text decorations, that we needed to override until hinted by the video solution. The navigation bar also gets a little convoluted with the specific paddings and margins used to satisfy the screenshot. Overall, I believe we got a good grasp on many CSS essentials that were applied in semi-realistic scenarios. To cover every core concept from the lectures, there could perhaps be another exercise to practice the different typographies/fonts and color modification to make a web page visually accessible.

### Flexbox - 04

I completed the exercise without much trouble, but resorted to the video solution to figure out that I needed to modify individual item heights for the 5th flex container, as there was no hint to set fixed heights like it was indicated in the 3rd and 6th container. There was only one exercise in this section, but I found the variety of containers to compare the differences between different `flex-flow` and other attributes helpful. I noticed that when I tested various screen sizes to match the screenshots to reproduce, the containers that used column `flex-directions` were exceeding the background. The video solution did not discuss this caveat, so I wish this problem had some elaboration on ways to improve responsiveness for column style flexboxes. I appreciated having to figure out the various `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap` attributes necessary to replicate the screenshots, but I wish there were a couple more containers to practice the more `align-items` and `justify-content` values, as those properties had less coverage in the current exercise.

### CSS Grid - 05

I initially did the exercises with a singular “style” of only utilizing `fr` units, but then I referenced the videos and liked the alternative approaches, such as using percentage values for row and column sizes. For the 02-grid-area exercise, I referred to the video for the exact pixel widths for the media queries to replicate the desktop, tablet, and phone size differences. For the desktop-sized container grid, I preferred how the video added an additional column to span the article over my original method of increasing the second column’s width, so I imitated that style.

The grid area exercise was especially helpful. The power of assigning a `grid-area` to classes, then essentially constructing a text-based table layout in the `grid-template-areas` property, felt intuitive. Although it took a while to get used to the format style of grid elements, I think the exercises were explained well due to the simplicity. As for suggestions on other exercises, there could be some practice on common grid layouts commonly seen in the industry, perhaps graphs or a page with images and text sections. However, the different layouts to replicate felt comprehensive, so these suggestions are more like supplemental exercises.

### Bootstrap - 06

The Bootstrap documentation is very detailed with many reproducible examples, helping me complete the exercises without overly relying on the videos. I referred to the video solutions mostly for comparing margin values. I found the 01-Cards and 03-Grid exercises especially helpful for different reasons: the first for the variety of classes needed to implement and the third for the simple explanation of how to achieve size specific properties through `sm`, `md`, etc.

There are an overwhelming number of classes in the Bootstrap framework, so the first exercise felt like a manageable starting point to mess around with the different font size, margin, button, and display classes that Bootstrap offers. I enjoyed the “improvement” to turn 02-Grid to the responsive 03-Grid so that we can ease into how grid displays are constructed in the framework. The 04-Modal exercise emphasized how much Bootstrap does for the developer as the straightforwardly labeled `modal-*` classes organize the content.

With how many classes there are, I wish we had some explanation or tips to help determine which classes are appropriate to use in given situations. For example, the necessity to have the two classes `btn btn-primary` versus the single class `btn-close` gives the impression that not everything is cleanly consistent. There are also some apparent naming dissimilarities, such as `btn-*` compared to `text-*`. Despite this, I think the exercises established a satisfactory starting foundation that sells the message of using the Bootstrap documentation for the class name that satisfies the feature to build.

### JavaScript - 07

I have some experience in JavaScript concepts, so I was able to complete the earlier exercises relatively on my own. For the more complicated exercises 06 and 07, I used the video solutions to ensure my approaches were on the right track. I found the sixth exercise especially helpful in demonstrating the link between HTML and JavaScript and how JavaScript can even manifest HTML through the document. Additionally, interacting with an API response also was a valuable lesson on how to appropriately catch and handle such data. I appreciated how the exercises did not specifically practice JavaScript syntax, but instead focused on concepts that are popularly used in the language in a web application (e.g. functions like map, filter, and object manipulation).

Although I thought the exercises taught the material comprehensively, I had some questions on the reasoning behind certain practices explored. For example, I wonder of the cases and situations where creating elements through JavaScript is more beneficial than writing the direct HTML. Regarding other exercise suggestions, an exercise to practice with how classes work in JavaScript would establish a solid foundation similar to the other programming languages we learned in previous classes. Moreover, asynchronous programming is abundant in web development, so perhaps an activity to discover the syntax and comparing it to synchronous processes would help emphasize its importance.

### jQuery - 08

I completed the exercises on my own, but I watched the solution videos to help understand the equivalencies between native JavaScript and jQuery better. I liked how the exercises contained the native JavaScript approach, so the exercise became a translation task to jQuery methods. Both exercises showed how jQuery shortens and simplifies our previous approaches in 07. I also found event chaining incredibly useful to diminish variable redundancy. Considering how flexible it is to create elements and styling with jQuery, I wonder about the cases where jQuery, native JavaScript, or HTML is preferred. Especially for the former two, some explanation behind the benefits and drawbacks of both approaches to recognize their relevance and effectiveness. The number of functions we worked with in jQuery were relatively few, so some other exercises to practice the library’s other offerings, such as selectors (`.find()`, `.children()`, etc.) would help me gain a greater grasp over how jQuery relates to the DOM.
